Welcome back.
Were you able to figure out insertion sort?
I have the answer here for you.
Just like it happened in the animation, we first loop over the array and if the item we're looping
for is less than the first item in the array.
Well, we just move.
That item, use the on shift method in array and added to the first index in the array.
Otherwise if the item were currently looping over is not less than the first index.
In that case, we got to figure out where the number should go.
So we're going to loop through things, do an if statement to see where the number should go, and then
we move that number to the right spot using the splice method so that if we click run here we have our
list sorted.
I'll once again leave this function here for you to play around with.
But I want to quickly talk about the big complexity of insertion sort.
There are times where insertion sort can work really, really well.
The best case scenario for insertion sort when the list is almost sorted or the data is really small,
it can be really fast.
If we go back to our little animations here.
And we look at insertion sort in a nearly sorted data and I click play.
You'll notice that it's the first one that will finish quite fast actually, compared to all the other
ones.
Let's see that again.
You'll see that it's the first one done.
Quite fast.
And as we'll discuss in the next videos, when it comes to small data sets or data sets that are nearly
sorted, you want to use insertion sort over most other sorting algorithms.
Well done.
Let's move on to the next sorting algorithm.